# EIP Improvement Process Call #21 Notes  <!-- omit in toc -->
### Meeting Date/Time: Wednesday, November 18, 2020 at 15:00 UTC <!-- omit in toc -->
### Meeting Duration: 1 hr <!-- omit in toc -->
### [Audio/Video of the meeting](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fJ762_NI2EU) <!-- omit in toc -->
### [Agenda](https://github.com/ethereum-cat-herders/EIPIP/issues/39) <!-- omit in toc -->
### Moderator: Hudson Jameson <!-- omit in toc -->
### Notes: Edson Ayllon <!-- omit in toc -->

----

# Summary <!-- omit in toc -->


## Decisions Made <!-- omit in toc -->

Decision Item | Description
-|-
**21.1** | Funding for EIP editors
**21.2** | Lightclient is now an editor
**21.3** | Discuss issues from the network upgrade repository here


## Actions Needed <!-- omit in toc -->

Action Item | Description
-|-
**21.1** | Contact Nick Johnson about the EIP merge bot.


---

# Contents <!-- omit in toc -->

- [1. Single source of truth for EIP](#1-single-source-of-truth-for-eip)
- [2. Edson's comments](#2-edsons-comments)
  - [2.1 How can we onboard more EIP editors?](#21-how-can-we-onboard-more-eip-editors)
  - [2.2 How can we onboard and assign more EIP champions?](#22-how-can-we-onboard-and-assign-more-eip-champions)
  - [2.3 How can we reduce the backlog?](#23-how-can-we-reduce-the-backlog)
  - [2.4 How can we reduce the turnaround time?](#24-how-can-we-reduce-the-turnaround-time)
  - [2.5 How can we organize working groups for different EIP categories?](#25-how-can-we-organize-working-groups-for-different-eip-categories)
  - [Decisions](#decisions)
- [3. Network upgrade process (Medium post)](#3-network-upgrade-process-medium-post)
- [4. EIP Status (Medium post)](#4-eip-status-medium-post)
- [5. Onboarding EIP editors (expectation guidelines)](#5-onboarding-eip-editors-expectation-guidelines)
- [6. Review action items from the previous meeting](#6-review-action-items-from-the-previous-meeting)
- [7. Other Business](#7-other-business)
  - [Decisions](#decisions-1)
  - [Actions](#actions)
- [Annex](#annex)
  - [Attendees](#attendees)
  - [Next Call](#next-call)

---

# 1. Single source of truth for EIP

Video | [0:00](https://youtu.be/fJ762_NI2EU)
-|-

There are multiple places talking about EIPs - EIP-1, ethereum.org/eips, and EIP README.md. They all describe it a little bit differently, are out of sync. 

The idea is to define what information belongs where, draw a line, and delete what doesn't belong. Brent was supposed to work on this.

Brent is coordinating with someone else working on this.

# 2. Edson's comments

Video | [2:11](https://youtu.be/fJ762_NI2EU?t=131)
-|-

## 2.1 How can we onboard more EIP editors?

Paying them will help. Getting paid hourly may be nice. Greg has said he'd prefer not being paid. We might reach out to him. And also see what other standards organizations do with editors.

It may be hard to recruit editors this year, since people are winding down for the holiday. It may be better to do a 2021 push for recruiting more editors. 

Moloch DAO may be a good place to request funding. Not many people are submitting proposals, and the few that are being sent are passing. We can pursue this as early as early December.

If anyone wants to help, Hudson is ok giving write permissions to the EIP repo. As long as we trust them, there's no need to create a high barrier to entry. 

Lightclient was recommended to be an EIP editor. Lightclient said he'd be willing to help practice onboarding through him, for future onboarding.

## 2.2 How can we onboard and assign more EIP champions?

It may not be our responsiblity to really push that. One thing that may be our responsibility is to clearly define what an EIP champion is. 

Lightclient recommends having informal working groups. People that have a lot of experience in some area. 

Something that may help is making it more socially acceptable to fork EIPs. A lot of EIPs that need champions are EIPs that are stale in development. Forking it may allow people to take on the role of EIP champion. That may be a new expectation that's set up with editors or with Cat Herders. 

One concern may be new authors who fork EIPs, put their name on it, and also don't push it to completion.

We do have a new system where EIPs go into Abandoned. So if we have a moment where multiple EIPs do go stale, that would clean it up.

If we pursue forking EIPs, and there does show up a problem, we could make a change to handle that problem.

We could encourage people contacting authors first, then fork it. It goes with open source etiquite.

## 2.3 How can we reduce the backlog?

Having more editors will reduce backlog, as well as the bot trimming stale EIPs. Between the bot and Micah responding to people, eventually, the open issues and PRs will be what people are currently working on. 

## 2.4 How can we reduce the turnaround time?

Goes along with the previous question.

## 2.5 How can we organize working groups for different EIP categories?

Not sure if we're at the point where we're looking at different EIP categories. We talked about separating the EIP repo, but it would turn out very messy.

## Decisions

- **21.1**—Funding for EIP editors
- **21.2**—Lightclient is now an editor

# 3. Network upgrade process (Medium post)

Video | [33:06](https://youtu.be/fJ762_NI2EU?t=1986)
-|-

The network upgrade already shared with ACD meeting. The medium post will be going live today.


# 4. EIP Status (Medium post)

Video | [33:48](https://youtu.be/fJ762_NI2EU?t=2028)
-|-

Draft made. Should be ready for review and posting this week.


# 5. Onboarding EIP editors (expectation guidelines)

Video | [34:25](https://youtu.be/fJ762_NI2EU?t=2065)
-|-

We already went over these as part of Edson's questions.


# 6. Review action items from the previous meeting

Video | [34:44](https://youtu.be/fJ762_NI2EU?t=2084)
-|-

No action items, only decisions made. 

# 7. Other Business

Now that the network upgrade repository is separated, should we consider pull requests and issues over there into these meetings? We decided that yes. If the agenda starts getting too large, we may need to cut things down. 

The merge bot seems to randomly turn itself on and off. When it goes down, it stays down for days. Nick Johnson wrote the bot. He may have it running on a platform as a service. Can we bring that under someone who is more active?

Micah will reach out to Nick Johnson on Discord.

## Decisions

- **21.3**—Discuss issues from the network upgrade repository here

## Actions

- **21.1**—Contact Nick Johnson about the EIP merge bot.


---

# Annex

## Attendees 


- Brent Allsop
- Edson Ayllon
- Hudson Jameson
- Lightclient
- Micah Zoltu
- Pooja Ranjan

## Next Call 

Wednesday, Decembrer 2, 2020, 15:00 UTC.
