# EIP Improvement Process Call #26 Notes  <!-- omit in toc -->
### Meeting Date/Time: Wednesday, Feb 10, 2020 at 15:00 UTC <!-- omit in toc -->
### Meeting Duration: 0.5 hr <!-- omit in toc -->
### [Audio/Video of the meeting](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XrkTATjdn6s) <!-- omit in toc -->
### [Agenda](https://github.com/ethereum-cat-herders/EIPIP/issues/50) <!-- omit in toc -->
### Moderator: Pooja Ranjan <!-- omit in toc -->
### Notes: Edson Ayllon <!-- omit in toc -->

----

# Summary <!-- omit in toc -->


## Actions Needed <!-- omit in toc -->

Action Item | Description
-|-
- **26.1**—Complete transfer of EIP bot to Github actions.
- **26.2**—Brent to open PR to EIPs repo.
- **26.3**—Editor Blog to be reviewed and published.
- **26.4**—Follow up with Oasis for JSON RPC.


---

# Contents <!-- omit in toc -->

- [1. Update on contracting out to someone to move the bot to GitHub actions. Ref:](#1-update-on-contracting-out-to-someone-to-move-the-bot-to-github-actions-ref)
  - [](#)
- [2. Single source of truth for EIP](#2-single-source-of-truth-for-eip)
  - [Actions](#actions)
- [3. EIP editor roles, responsibilities blog](#3-eip-editor-roles-responsibilities-blog)
- [4. Review action items from the previous meeting](#4-review-action-items-from-the-previous-meeting)
- [7. Other Business](#7-other-business)
  - [Action Items](#action-items)
- [Annex](#annex)
  - [Attendees](#attendees)
  - [Next Call](#next-call)

---

# 1. Update on contracting out to someone to move the bot to GitHub actions. Ref:
Video | [0:00](https://youtu.be/XrkTATjdn6s)
-|-

In the previous meeting we talked about funding. Next step may be to create a doc of requirements. 

The requirement is to reproduce the current automerge bot in Github actions.

## 

- **26.1**—Complete transfer of EIP bot to Github actions.

# 2. Single source of truth for EIP

Video | [1:22](https://youtu.be/XrkTATjdn6s?t=82)
-|-

Brent shared his screen (see video).

In https://eips.ethereum.org EIP status terms is out of date. Needs to be cleaned up. All of the information from that front page is supposed to be in EIP1. Should be replaced with references to EIP1. 

The https://ethereum.org/eips list is also outdated, which is also in EIP1. Brent recommends redirecting this page to https://eips.ethereum.org. 

Micah proposes moving EIP1 into the frontpage, instead of moving the frontpage to EIP1. 

Brent wants to create a petition to figure out how to move forward.

Pooja suggests just creating a Google Doc or Hackmd to suggest changes. 

Pooja brought up the Readme as well, for unifying content.

Brent suggested making the single source of truth the frontpage of https://eips.ethereum.org. 

Brent will open a PR.

## Actions

- **26.2**—Brent to open PR to EIPs repo.

# 3. EIP editor roles, responsibilities blog

Video | [17:58](https://youtu.be/XrkTATjdn6s?t=1078)
-|-

Blog shared with the group. The group will take time to read for any feedback.

- **26.3**—Editor Blog to be reviewed and published.

# 4. Review action items from the previous meeting

Video | [19:42](https://youtu.be/XrkTATjdn6s?t=1182)
-|-

> ACTION 25.1: Confirm with Sam @ ethereum.org whether the intention is to have ethereum.org point to the Eth1.0 specs repo, or vice versa. Where does the canonical content live? 6:14

Talks ongoing.

> ACTION 25.2: (mainly James) Work out what content we think we should be surfacing on the Eth1.0 spec repo and network upgrades content for Ethtereum.org, and then speak to Thomas and Sam for their views. 18:28

James not on this call.

> ACTION 25.3: Cat Herders to consider EIP information for Ethereum.org site. 19:48

Talks ongoing. May have to rethink based on how the EIP main info is housed.

> ACTION 25.4: Brent to continue the investigation into sources of EIPs information. 31:36

Discussed on this call.

> ACTION 25.5: Cat Herders to progress EIP status cleanup. 34:12

Ongoing. Opening several PRs to update statuses.

# 7. Other Business

Video | [23:04](https://youtu.be/XrkTATjdn6s?t=1384)
-|-

Mentioned EIPs lobbying changing the size of the nonce. Lightclient will address them. They were automatically closed.

Pooja had a question about EIP2481. It is being implemented. There was some disagreement and debate. But that debate is over. The authors do not have intent to change it, but it is not final yet.

Pooja had a question about the topics of future meetings. If we stick to EIP1. 

News, all caught up on PRs. All open PRs are active items.

James joined late. For JSON RPC, Oasis has their own repo on it. Something to find out. That was the biggest update. Oasis thinks we want to put the JSON RPC spec on Ethereum.org. But it may be more appropriate in a repo for PRs. Ethereum.org is in a repo that can be PR'd. We do need to follow up with them.

Pooja asked about EIP1474. It may be a good start to specify further JSON RPC. Check back in a month to see if they want to move this to withdrawn.

## Action Items

- **26.4**—Follow up with Oasis for JSON RPC.

---

# Annex

## Attendees 


- Brent Allsop
- James Hancock
- Lightclient
- Micah Zoltu
- Pooja Ranjan

## Next Call 

Wednesday, February 24, 2020, 15:00 UTC.
